grep options pattern files

Options Description

-c : This prints only a count of the lines that match a pattern
-h : Display the matched lines, but do not display the filenames.
-i : Ignores, case for matching
-l : Displays list of a filenames only.
-n : Display the matched lines and their line numbers.
-v : This prints out all the lines that do not matches the pattern
-e exp : Specifies expression with this option. Can use multiple times.
-f file : Takes patterns from file, one per line.
-E : Treats pattern as an extended regular expression 
-w : Match whole word
-o : Print only the matched parts of a matching line with each such part on a separate output line.

Text in test1 file:-
Aggarwal is working in a company.
Aggrawal works for 10 hours a day.
Agrawal wakes up at 5 in the morning.
agrawal is 45 years old.
aggarwal has been working for 10 years in his company.
agrawal speaks English and Hindi.
aggrawal enjoys his weekend with his family.

EXAMPLES:-

1. -c : grep -c "is" test1 
   5
2. -h : grep -c "is" test1 
  Aggarwal is working in a company.
  agrawal is 45 years old.
  aggarwal has been working for 10 years in his company.
  agrawal speaks English and Hindi.
  aggrawal enjoys his weekend with his family.
3.-i : grep -i "Aggarwal" test1
       Aggarwal is working in a company.
       aggarwal has been working for 10 years in his company.
4.-l : grep -l "is" test1
       test1

5.-l : grep -n "is" test1
       1:Aggarwal is working in a company.
       4:agrawal is 45 years old.
       5:aggarwal has been working for 10 years in his company.
6. -e exp  grep e exp "is" test1
      test1:Agrawal wakes up at 5 in the morning.
      test1:agrawal is 45 years old.
      test1:aggarwal has been working for 10 years in his company.
      test1:agrawal speaks English and Hindi.
      test1:aggrawal enjoys his weekend with his family.

       6:agrawal speaks English and Hindi.

6.-v : grep -v "is" test1
       Aggrawal works for 10 hours a day.
       Agrawal wakes up at 5 in the morning.


